=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

shellcat - templating system with shell syntax

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<shellcat> [-s I<SHELL>] I<TEMPLATE> [I<ARG>...]

B<shellcat> {-h | --help | -v | --version}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<I<TBD>>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-s>, B<--shell>=I<SHELL>

Use the specified shell. The default is F</bin/sh>.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Output version information and exit.

=back

=head1 TEMPLATE SYNTAX

=over

=item I<text>

Unless specified otherwise below, any text is echoed verbatim:

  $ cat ex1.sc
  Hello world!

  $ shellcat ex1.sc
  Hello world!

=item B<#!>I<interpreter>

If the first line of the template starts with B<#!> characters, it is
completely ignored. This allows for executable scripts with B<shellcat> as
interpreter:

  $ cat ex2.sc
  #!/usr/bin/shellcat
  Hello world!

  $ chmod +x ex2.sc
  $ ./ex2.sc
  Hello world!

=item B<E<lt>$> I<code> B<$E<gt>>

The I<code> is executed by the shell:

  $ cat ex3.sc
  <$ for x in $(seq 3); do $>Hello world!
  <$ done $>

  $ shellcat ex3.sc
  Hello world!
  Hello world!
  Hello world!

Whitespace around I<code> is strongly recommended, but not obligatory;
see below however.

=item B<-$E<gt>>

If used inside a code block, the B<$E<gt>> (with the leading minus sign
omitted) is used in the shell code:

  $ cat ex4.sc
  <$ echo '-$> not closed yet' $>

  $ shellcat ex4.sc
  $> not closed yet

=item B<E<lt>$->

If used outside a code block, the B<E<lt>$> (with the trailing minus sign
omitted) sequence is output:

  $ cat ex5.sc
  <$- not code $>

  $ shellcat ex5.sc
  <$ not code $>

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The following environment variables are available for the processes spawned by
B<shellcat>:

=over

=item B<SHELLCAT>

name of the B<shellcat> interpreter

=back

Variables which existed in the envionment are not modified, but left intact.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sh(1)>
